## Most Difficult Part of the Class

So far the most difficult part of the class for me is switching my mind set from pyton to R. All of my classes so far in coding have been in Python. However, I do feel like im making strides in my coding with R. And I do believe this project - will show case that. As the course has progressed I do believe that trying to remember every function / topic we have went over is kind of leaving my brain. Since I have started coding I have realized that learning and applying are two completely different aspects of schooling. It is extremely easy to memorize things for an exam, but when it comes to actually applying what you learned in real life the prep and memorazation serve you no purpose. I have tried extremely hard, in all coding classes to try and not memorize things but learn them for the long term. With R, for me, I cant remember function names and how they work for the life of me! It might be because I have had 0 experience in the language prior. Graphing and plotting wasn't too tricky as the chunk of code is interchangable - also reading graphs isnt too bad. But I do not believe that I could get very analytical with them. I could scratch the surface on analysis, however pulling actual answers from a graph has always been dificult for me. I know this class wasnt focused too much on finding answers with graphs, which I appreciated. But I do beleive that is one thing i canwork on in the future.

In my project I display how I am able to graph data, and my graphs are somewhat detailed. However, my analysis is very simple. I wish I knew how to get more analytical instead of just explaining the graphs in simple terms. 

## What was the easiest part of the class for you? Explain why
2. Learning the flow of the class has been the easiest for me, and quite frankly the most enjoyable. I like that I am learning as I am going. Instead of lecturing the class we're esentially lecturing ourselves. I consider myself a visual learner and the preperations have given me the ability to work out problems on my own ( with google of coruse :) ). I honestly don't know what else to say. As this class in general is neither hard nor easy. Its enjoyable. I honestly enjoyed learning about R capabilities. This is a great class to lay the foundation of knowledge and a great spot to begin working in a powerful tool. Although, I do wish I took this as an in person class. I do believe asking questions directly to professer Bradford was a bit challenging. However, he did make himself available multiple times a day, during lecture I wish I were able to directly bring my code to him. And I do believe I learn better in a calss setting, Its just who I am as a student. Also learning GitHub and the process took a while to lock down. I finally have it figured out, but maybe a little more lecture time on making sure all students know how to do it. As this is a big part of the class since all course work is done and loaded through it. I wasnt able to load half of my class work because I was 'behind' in pushes / commits.
## What part of the class surprised or interested you the most? Explain why.

The no grading system for sure surprised me the most. I have NEVER been in a class where I didnt earn a grade for every assignment that I did. I like this style of class because if you do the work now you'll reap the rewards. Anyone can memorize something for a test. This class makes you work, but in a good way. Im sure people could get away with not doing much in the class, but since I am going to be using these techniques in my work, I am learning for myself, not a grade! I also found it quite surprising how much i enjoyed learning R. Usually when it comes to coding / coding langauges it is quite difficult to learn. For example Java. I am so lost in those type of courses. Here I was able to learn comfortably. As i said earlier a few things trasnfer from python to R. Such as creating dataframes and manipulating data. So I did catch on early and was able to ask the right questions. I also found it suprising how much I liked this class to be quite honest. I wasnt sure what I was getting into when taking this class. I now wish I would have taken higher level stats classes in my undergrad. I am very pleased with what I have learned!

## Give one piece of advice to a student just beginning a semester of STA 418/518

 GO TO CLASS - that is the biggest advice I can give to anyone. Even if you think you have mastered the material, GO TO CLASS. My freshamn year of undergrad I didnt go to class much, because I knew most of the material. However, I was never able to have my questions answered when they came into mind. Learning the materials in a class setting is so much better. Also come in with an attitude that you are learning this to better yourself as a professional. I get it some Gen-Ed coruses that are necessary to graduate are boring and material is dry. But if you're in this class chances are you want to do something with Data. Show up, Pay attention, ask questions, and do your work. Simple as that! Also make sure you ask questions and find someone else in the class to work with. We all have different coding capabilites and come from different majors. You will find someone who can assist when you're stuck. Valerie has been so helpful and is so knowledeable when it comes to plotting data. I struggled with that as I have not had any SAAS classses or really any other statistical graphing classes. This is a great class to expand your knowledge of a powerful tool!
