# Portfolio
midterm and final portfolio for STA 518

For this portfolio project I am going to attemtp to create a program that can predict the second half of the Premier League - and in turn show the winner!

## Table of Contents.

1. Import, manage, and clean data.
2. Create graphical displays and numerical summaries of data for exploratory analysis and presentations.
3. Write R programs for simulations from probability models and randomization-based experiments.
4. Use source documentation and other resources to troubleshoot and extend R programs.
5. Write clear, efficient, and well-documented R programs.

How I will fulfill the course objectives with my portfolio project:
1. https://datahub.io/sports-data/english-premier-league#resource-season-1819
2. I will be able to show 'Goals-For' and 'Goals-Against' - determining weak offense and strong defense / vice-versa.
3. This project will take data from the first half of the season and try to predict the winner 
4. Footnotes will be used throughout this project

## Essays
Growth as a Data Person: I believe once finished with STA 518 my ability to create tools for visualization will have immensly increased. This is my first course with R and I am thourghouly enjoying every minute. I have mostly work in Python for coding so I like how coding in R is done. I have taken a Java class before and was completely lost to say the least. I beleive this course will help me grow in my professional life as well. We are about half way through the course now, I am excited to work on this project solo and the group project. Once those are complete I believe my ability to tell stories with data will be a great tool to bring to my future employers! I do feel I have a good grasp on most of, if not all the libraries we covered in class such as: ggplot, diplyr, tidyverse, rmarkdown, distill. Which I believe are crucial for creating statiscal analysis. As I have said, this is my first real high level stats course. I came in not knowing much but I do believe if it came down to it, I could import data, clean it and graph it in numerous ways in R. I am not sure how widespread R is in the field of work I would like to go into. But as I said, I do believe I can confidentally tell my employer I am comfortable using R/R studio. I know what kind of questions will be asked and how to navigate those problems. I am not sure how exporting works that great. But I am sure i could figure it out. I am actually looking forward to my next stats course in the data analytics prorgram as I now feel I have the 1st and 2nd layer of knowledge to create statistical analysis!

## Lightning Round: 
1. What was the most difficult part of the class for you? List a general topic, a specific problem, a kind of work we did, etc. and explain why.
2. What was the easiest part of the class for you? Explain why
3. What part of the class surprised or interested you the most? Explain why.
4. Give one piece of advice to a student just beginning a semester of STA 418/518 that will help them be successful in learning.

1. So far the most difficult part of the class for me is switching my mind set from pyton to R. All of my classes so far in coding have been in Python.
However, I do feel like im making strides in my coding with R. And I do believe this project - will show case that. As the course has progressed I do believe that trying to remember every function / topic we have went over is kind of leaving my brain. Since I have started coding I have realized that learning and applying are two completely different aspects of schooling. It is extremely easy to memorize things for an exam, but when it comes to actually applying what you learned in real life the prep and memorazation serve you no purpose. I have tried extremely hard, in all coding classes to try and not memorize things but learn them for the long term. With R, for me, I cant remember function names and how they work for the life of me! It might be because I have had 0 experience in the language prior. Graphing and plotting wasn't too tricky as the chunk of code is interchangable - also reading graphs isnt too bad. But I do not believe that I could get very analytical with them. I could scratch the surface on analysis, however pulling actual answers from a graph has always been dificult for me. I know this class wasnt focused too much on finding answers with graphs, which I appreciated. But I do beleive that is one thing i canwork on in the future. After finishing up my portfolio and working on the final project, I had a decent amount of issues with the joining of datasets. I feel like that should not be as hard as it is, but joining them together has caused me some strive. However, I do feel more comfortable doing joins. I would not say I am an experet but I am able to find the similarities and honestly google how to merge by "column", "brand".. etc.
2. Learning the flow of the class has been the easiest for me, and quite frankly the most enjoyable. I like that I am learning as I am going. Instead of lecturing the class we're esentially lecturing ourselves. I consider myself a visual learner and the preperations have given me the ability to work out problems on my own ( with google of coruse :) ). 
3. The no grading system for sure surprised me the most. I have NEVER been in a class where I didnt earn a grade for every assignment that I did. I like this style of class because if you do the work now you'll reap the rewards. Anyone can memorize something for a test. This class makes you work, but in a good way. Im sure people could get away with not doing much in the class, but since I am going to be using these techniques in my work, I am learning for myself, not a grade! I also found it quite surprising how much i enjoyed learning R. Usually when it comes to coding / coding langauges it is quite difficult to learn. For example Java. I am so lost in those type of courses. Here I was able to learn comfortably. As i said earlier a few things trasnfer from python to R. Such as creating dataframes and manipulating data. So I did catch on early and was able to ask the right questions. I also found it suprising how much I liked this class to be quite honest. I wasnt sure what I was getting into when taking this class. I now wish I would have taken higher level stats classes in my undergrad. I am very pleased with what I have learned!
4. GO TO CLASS - that is the biggest advice I can give to anyone. Even if you think you have mastered the material, GO TO CLASS. My freshamn year of undergrad I didnt go to class much, because I knew most of the material. However, I was never able to have my questions answered when they came into mind. Learning the materials in a class setting is so much better. Also come in with an attitude that you are learning this to better yourself as a professional. I get it some Gen-Ed coruses that are necessary to graduate are boring and material is dry. But if you're in this class chances are you want to do something with Data. Show up, Pay attention, ask questions, and do your work. Simple as that! Also make sure you ask questions and find someone else in the class to work with. We all have different coding capabilites and come from different majors. You will find someone who can assist when you're stuck. Valerie has been so helpful and is so knowledeable when it comes to plotting data. I struggled with that as I have not had any SAAS classses or really any other statistical graphing classes. This is a great class to expand your knowledge of a powerful tool!
